>> Woodruff: RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
PUTIN PROPOSED A PEACE PLAN
AFTER TALKING WITH UKRAINE'S
LEADER TO END THE BLOODSHED
THAT'S GRIPPED THE EMBATTLED
COUNTRY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA VOWS TO DESTROY
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
WE EXPLORE HOW THE U.S. CAN
HANDLE MULTIPLE CRISES ABROAD.
PLUS, TRANSFORMING HOW STUDENTS
LEARN TO READ BY GETTING THEM
OUT OF THEIR SEATS AND REQUIRING
THEM TO USE ALL THEIR SENSES.
>> FIRST, TOTAL CHANGE.
TEACHERS HELPED ME A LOT.
THEY UNDERSTOOD HOW I LEARNED.
A VERY HANDS-ON.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: CONFIRMATION CAME
TODAY THAT A SECOND AMERICAN
JOURNALIST HAS INDEED BEEN
MURDERED BY ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS IN SYRIA.
A VIDEO POSTED YESTERDAY SHOWED
THE BEHEADING OF STEVEN SOTLOFF.
>> OVERNIGHT, OUR GOVERNMENT
DETERMINED THAT TRAGICALLY
STEVEN WAS TAKEN FROM US IN A
HORRIFIC ACT OF VIOLENCE.
>> Woodruff: FROM PRESIDENT
OBAM DMERICAN LEADERS
VOICED OUTRAGE TODAY.
THE PRESIDENT SPOKE IN ESTONIA,
INSISTING THE KILLERS WILL NOT
COW THE UNITED STATES.
>> THEY HAVE FAILED BECAUSE,
LIKE PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD,
AMERICANS ARE REPULSED BY THEIR
BARBARISM.
WE WILL NOT BE INTIMIDATED THEIR
HORRIFIC ACTS ONLY UNITE US AS A
COUNTRY AND STIFFEN OUR RESOLVE
TO TAKE THE FIGHT AGAINST THESE
TERRORISTS.
>> Woodruff: STEVEN SOTLOFF WAS
A FREELANCER WHO HAD WORKED FOR
"TIME" AND "FOREIGN POLICY"
MAGAZINES.
HE VANISHED LAST YEAR IN SYRIA
AND HAD NOT BEEN SEEN SINCE.
THEN, TWO WEEKS AGO, HE APPEARED
BRIEFLY IN THE VIDEO OF JAMES
FOLEY'S BEHEADING ALSO AT THE
HANDS OF A HOODED JIHADIST WHO
SPEAKS WITH A BRITISH ACCENT.
BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY PHILIP
HAMMOND.
>> OUR PRELIMINARY ANALYSIS IS
THAT THIS VIDEO IS GENUINE, THAT
IT IS MR. SOTLOFF, AND THAT IT
APPEARS TO BE THE SAME PERSON
WITH AN APPARENTLY BRITISH VOICE
THAT APPEARED IN THE LAST VIDEO.
>> Woodruff: HAMMOND SAID LONDON
IS CONSIDERING EVERY POSSIBLE
OPTION TO PROTECT A BRITISH
HOSTAGE WHO WAS THREATENED IN
YESTERDAY'S VIDEO.
AND IN PORTSMOUTH, NEW
HAMPSHIRE, TODAY, VICE PRESIDENT
JOE BIDEN VOWED TO PURSUE THE
KILLERS TO THE GATES OF HELL.
MEANWHILE, THE ISRAELI
GOVERNMENT CONFIRMED SOTLOFF WAS
ALSO AN ISRAELI CITIZEN.
AND A FORMER ISLAMIC STATE
CAPTIVE WHO'D BEFRIENDED SOTLOFF
TOLD AN ISRAELI NEWSPAPER THAT
THE JOURNALIST  MANAGED TO HIDE
HIS JUDAISM FROM THE MILITANTS.
FILMMAKER MATTHEW VAN DYKE KNEW
BOTH SOTLOFF AND FOLEY.
HE SAYS THEY CONSIDERED IT VITAL
TO TELL THE STORY OF SYRIA'S
CIVIL WAR DESPITE THE OBVIOUS
DANGER.
THEY WERE BOTH JOURNALISTS THAT
WERE CAREFUL.
THEY TOOK PRECAUTIONS AND
UNFORTUNATELY EVEN IF YOU DO
EVERYTHING RIGHT, SOMETIMES IN
SYRIA THINGS GO WRONG.
>> Woodruff: THE STATE
DEPARTMENT HAS SAID A FEW
AMERICANS ARE STILL BEING HELD
BY ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS IN
SYRIA, INCLUDING A 26-YEAR-OLD
WOMAN WHO'D BEEN DOING AID WORK.
THE SOTLOFF FAMILY ISSUED A
STATEMENT THROUGH A SPOKESMAN
OUTSIDE THEIR HOME IN PINE
CREST, FLORIDA.
>> STEVE OFTEN SAID HIS JOB WAS
TO HOLD PEOPLE'S HANDS, TO BUILD
RAPPORT BEFORE DELVING INTO THE
STORY.
HE NEVER RUSHED OR WAS
PRESSURED.
HE WAS APPRECIATED BY ALL WHO
MET HIM FOR SINCERITY AND
KINDNESS.
STEVE HAD A GENTLE SOUL THIS
WORLD WILL BE WITHOUT.
>> Woodruff:
>> Woodruff: WE'LL HAVE AN
EXTENDED DISCUSSION ON WHAT TO
DO ABOUT THE ISLAMIC STATE,
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
REPORTED POOD THE OVERALL TOLL
OF THE EBOLA OUTBREAK IS MORE
THAN 9,100.
AMERICAN NANCY WRITEBOL
CONTRACTED ABELIA IN LIBERIA BUT
RECOVERED IN ATLANTA AFTER
RECEIVING AN EXPERIMENTAL DRUG.
SHE APPEARED TODAY AT HER
MISSIONARY GROUP'S HEADQUARTERS
NEAR CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA
AND REFLECTED ON HER ORDEAL.
>> THERE WERE SOME VERY, VERY
DARK DAYS, AND THOSE DARK DAYS
ARE NOT JUST WHAT I EXPERIENCE.
I KNOW IT'S WHAT OUR BROTHERS
AND SISTERS WHO HAVE EBOLA IN
ISOLATION UNITS EXPERIENCE.
I WATCHED AS PEOPLE WERE BY
THEMSELVES NOT ABLE TO HAVE A
FAMILY MEMBER NEAR THEM, NOT
ABLE TO FEEL THE TOUCH OF
ANOTHER PERSON NEAR THEM BECAUSE
THEY'RE ISOLATED.
THE QUESTION IS USUALLY ASKED
WHAT DO YOU THINK SAVED YOU?
WAS IT THE ZMapp DRUG?
WAS IT THE SUPPORTIVE CARE?
WAS IT THE LIBERIAN AND U.S.
MEDICAL PEOPLE?
WAS IT THOSE DOCTORS AND NURSES
THAT HELPED TO SAVE YOU?
OR WAS IT YOUR FAITH?
AND MY ANSWER TO THAT QUESTION
IS ALL OF THE ABOVE.
>> Woodruff: IN ANOTHER
DEVELOPMENT, U.N. OFFICIALS
WARNED THAT A NIGERIAN DOCTOR
MAY HAVE SPREAD EBOLA TO DOZENS
OF PEOPLE AFTER HE BECAME
INFECTED.
AT ONE POINT, FRIENDS FROM HIS
CHURCH LAID HANDS ON HIM AS PART
OF A HEALING SE CEREMONY.
IN PAKISTAN, ANTI-GOVERNMENT
PROTEST LEADERS OPENED NEW
NEGOTIATIONS WITH OPPOSITION
LAWMAKERS IN A BID TO END WEEKS
OF UNREST.
THOUSANDS OF DEMONSTRATORS HAD
MARCHED ON THE CAPITAL
ISLAMABAD.
THEY DEMANDED THAT PRIME
MINISTER NAWAZ SHARIF BE REMOVED
FOR ALLEGED VOTE FRAUD IN LAST
YEAR'S ELECTIONS.
VIOLENT CLASHES OVER THE WEEKEND
LEFT THREE PROTESTERS DEAD AND
MORE THAN 500 INJURED.
SINCE THEN, THE CROWDS HAVE
THINNED.
THE LONGEST-SERVING MAN ON NORTH
CAROLINA'S DEATH ROW WALKED OUT
OF PRISON TODAY, AFTER A JUDGE
OVERTURNED  HIS CONVICTION.
HENRY McCOLLUM AND HIS HALF
BROTHER, LEON BROWN, WERE FOUND
GUILTY OF RAPING AND MURDERING A
YOUNG GIRL IN 1983.
BUT D.N.A. TESTS NOW SUGGEST
ANOTHER MAN MAY HAVE COMMITTED
THE CRIME.
TODAY, McCOLLUM, NOW 50-YEARS-
OLD, HUGGED HIS PARENTS OUTSIDE
THE GATES OF CENTRAL PRISON IN
RALEIGH.
>> IT'S WONDERFUL, I'M NOT, I
JUST THANK GOD, I JUST THANK GOD
THAT I'M OUT OF THIS PLACE.
>> IS THERE ANY ANGER IN YOUR
HEART RIGHT NOW?
>> OH, NO, NO, AIN'T NO ANGER IN
MY HEART.
I FORGIVE THOSE PEOPLE AND
STUFF, RIGHT, BUT YOU KNOW, I
DON'T LIKE WHAT THEY'VE DONE TO
ME AND MY BROTHER, BECAUSE THEY
TOOK 30 YEARS AWAY FROM ME FOR
NO REASON.
>> Woodruff: McCOLLUM'S YOUNGER
BROTHER, LEON BROWN, WAS ALSO
RELEASED TODAY.
HE'D BEEN SERVING A LIFE
SENTENCE FOR THE CRIMES.
A MICHIGAN MAN WAS SENTENCED TO
AT LEAST 17 YEARS IN PRISON
TODAY FOR KILLING AN UNARMED
WOMAN ON HIS PORCH.
THEODORE WAFER WAS CONVICTED OF
SECOND-DEGREE MURDER LAST MONTH.
HE  TESTIFIED HE AWOKE NOVEMBER
SECOND, TO HEAR RENISHA MCBRIDE,
POUNDING ON HIS DOOR BEFORE
DAWN.
SHE'D BEEN DRINKING HEAVILY AND
CRASHED HER CAR.
WAFER CLAIMED SELF-DEFENSE, BUT
PROSECUTORS ARGUED THE SHOOTING
WAS UNJUSTIFIED, REGARDLESS.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THOUSANDS OF
LAID OFF CASINO WORKERS HAVE
BEGUN FILING FOR UNEMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS IN ATLANTIC CITY, NEW
JERSEY.
AT LEAST 300 LINED UP BY THE
TIME THE DOORS OPENED TODAY.
THE MASS FILING WILL RUN FOR
THREE DAYS.
FOUR OF ATLANTIC CITY'S 12
CASINOS HAVE CLOSED THIS YEAR
INCLUDING TWO OVER THE WEEKEND
THAT LEFT 5,000 PEOPLE OUT OF
WORK.
AUGUST WAS A BETTER THAN
EXPECTED MONTH FOR AUTO SALES IN
THE U.S. LARGELY DUE TO
INCREASED DEMAND FOR TRUCKS AND
CROSSOVER SUV'S.
CHRYSLER HAD ITS BEST AUGUST IN
12 YEARS, AND ALONG WITH NISSAN.
FORD'S ROSE A FRACTION OF A
PERCENT.
BUT GENERAL MOTORS SALES WERE
OFF MORE THAN ONE PERCENT.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
ALMOST 11 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,078; THE NASDAQ FELL ALMOST
26 POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,572; AND
THE S&P 500 SLIPPED ONE POINT TO
FINISH AT 2,000.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
PROSPECTS FOR PEACE, BUT
CHALLENGES FOR EUROPE IN
UKRAINE.
HOW CAN THE U.S. HANDLE MULTIPLE
CRISES ABROAD?
TRANSFORMING THE WAY TO TEACH
KIDS HOW TO READ.
A LOOK AT ANONYMOUS THE ONLINE
COLLECTIVE THAT INSPIRES DIGITAL
VIGILANTES.
AND, HOW THE IMMIGRATION CRISIS
SPREADS FAR BEYOND THE MEXICO
BORDER.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA HAD
TOUGH WORDS FOR RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN TODAY
AS HE AND OTHER WORLD LEADERS
PREPARED FOR TOMORROW'S NATO
SUMMIT.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: AS FIGHTING BETWEEN
GOVERNMENT TROOPS AND REBELS
RAGED IN EASTERN UKRAINE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA ARRIVED IN THE
BALTIC STATE OF ESTONIA AND
MINCED NO WORDS.
>> IT WAS NOT THE GOVERNMENT IN
KYIV THAT DESTABILIZED EASTERN
UKRAINE, IT'S BEEN THE PRO-
RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS WHO ARE
ENCOURAGED BY RUSSIA, FINANCED
BY RUSSIA, TRAINED BY RUSSIA,
SUPPLIED BY RUSSIA AND ARMED BY
RUSSIA.
THE PRESIDENT TOLD A PACKED
CONCERT HALL IN TALLINN THAT THE
U.S. WILL NEVER ACCEPT RUSSIA'S
SEIZURE OF CRIMEA OR ANY OTHER
PART OF UKRAINE.
HE ALSO PLEDGED FULL SUPPORT FOR
AMERICA'S NATO ALLIES IN THE
FACE OF CRITICISM AT HOME THAT
HE'S TOO CAUTIOUS IN CONFRONTING
MOSCOW.
>> WE'LL BE HERE FOR ESTONIA.
WE WILL BE HERE FOR LATVIA.
WE WILL BE HERE FOR LITHUANIA.
YOU LOST YOUR INDEPENDENCE ONCE
BEFORE.
WITH NATO, YOU WILL NEVER LOSE
IT AGAIN.
>> Reporter: MR. OBAMA'S ONE-DAY
VISIT TO ESTONIA CAME AMID
REPORTS OF A POSSIBLE CEASE-FIRE
AGREEMENT IN UKRAINE.
UKRAINE'S PRESIDENT PETRO
POROSHENKO INITIALLY PUT OUT A
STATEMENT SAYING HE'D AGREED ON
A TRUCE WITH RUSSIAN PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN.
BUT MOSCOW DENIED THAT, SAYING
IT WASN'T A PARTY TO THE
CONFLICT.
LATER, A REVISED STATEMENT FROM
KIEV SPOKE ONLY OF STEPS THAT
COULD LEAD TO A CEASE-FIRE.
BUT THE PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS
REJECTED IT.
PUTIN, SPEAKING LATER ON A VISIT
TO MONGOLIA LAID OUT HIS OWN
SEVEN-POINT PEACE PLAN.
IT MADE NO MENTION OF
WITHDRAWING ANY RUSSIAN TROOPS
FROM UKRAINE.
THE KREMLIN STILL DENIES ANY ARE
THERE.
POROSHENKO TODAY MADE A MORE
GENERAL APPEAL.
>> ( translated ): LISTEN, HOW
CAN ANYONE BE AGAINST PEACE?
HOW CAN ANYONE REJECT THE FACT
THAT PEOPLE MUST STOP DYING?
HOW CAN WE STOP THESE AWFUL
EVENTS TODAY?
IT'S JUST BARBARISM WHEN
HOSTAGES ARE BEING SHOT DEAD,
WHEN SCHOOLS FULL OF CIVILIANS
ARE BEING DESTROYED.
>> Reporter: THE BURGEONING
CRISIS, AND THE RELATIONSHIP
WITH RUSSIA, WILL TAKE CENTER
STAGE AT THE NATO SUMMIT THAT
STARTS IN WALES TOMORROW.
ON MONDAY, NATO SECRETARY
GENERAL ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN
CALLED IT A CRUCIAL SUMMIT IN
THE ORGANIZATION'S HISTORY.
ONE OPTION ON THE TABLE,
CREATING A SO-CALLED RAPID
RESPONSE FORCE IN EASTERN
EUROPE.
OF SEVERAL THOUSAND NATO TROOPS
READY TO MOVE ON SHORT NOTICE.
AT A NEWS CONFERENCE WITH
ESTONIA'S PRESIDENT TODAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED ALL NATO
COUNTRIES TO PULL THEIR WEIGHT.
>> ESTONIA CONTRIBUTES ITS FULL
SHARE, ITS FULL 2% OF G.D.P. TO
D
ESTONIA IS AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
EVERY NATO MEMBER NEEDS TO DO
ITS FAIR SHARE FOR OUR
COLLECTIVE DEFENSE.
>> Reporter: AS IT NERVOUSLY
WATCHES EVENTS IN UKRAINE, THE
ESTONIAN GOVERNMENT SAID THIS
WEEK IT WANTS MORE.
IT WANTS PERMANENT NATO BASES ON
ITS OWN TERRITORY.
IN ADDITION, UKRAINE IS NOW
SAYING IT WANTS TO JOIN THE
ALLIANCE.
MEANWHILE, THE PENTAGON
ANNOUNCED TODAY THAT 200 U.S.
SOLDIERS WILL TAKE PART IN AN
EXERCISE IN WESTERN UKRAINE NEXT
WEEK.
AND FRANCE SAID IT'S HALTING THE
DELIVERY OF A WARSHIP TO RUSSIA.
BUT THE TENSE SITUATION IN
EASTERN EUROPE WON'T BE THE ONLY
TOPIC ON THE AGENDA AT THE NATO
SUMMIT.
OFFICIALS ARE ALSO SET TO
DISCUSS STRATEGIES FOR COMBATING
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP IN IRAQ
AND SYRIA.
AS WELL AS THE WAY FORWARD FOR
THE ALLIANCE IN AFGHANISTAN.
DUE TO THE BITTER, CONTESTED
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION THERE, THE
COUNTRY HAS NO SET LEADER YET SO
THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT HAS YET TO
SIGN AN AGREEMENT TO KEEP ANY
U.S. OR NATO TROOPS IN THE
COUNTRY AFTER THE END OF THIS
YEAR.
I SPOKE WITH MARGARET EARLIER.
SO, MARGARET, THANK YOU.
YOU HAVE BEEN REPORTING ON THIS
ALL DAY.
HOW ARE THE U.S. AND ITS ALLIES
REACTING TO THESE REPORTS OF A
CEASE FIRE BETWEEN PUTIN AND
POROSHENKO?
>> JUDY, THE PRESIDENT SAID
SOMETHING EARLIER THIS MORNING
ABOUT PURSUING OR KEEPING AN EYE
ON, BUT U.S. OFFICIALS AND OTHER
WESTERN DIPLOMATS SAY THIS IS
JUST PART OF THE PUTIN PARTON
WHICH IS EVERY TIME AN E.U.
SUMMIT IS COMING UP AND THEY'RE
ABOUT TO LEVEL SANCTIONS, HE
MAKES A GESTURE TO WITHDRAW
FORCES BUT DOESN'T LIVE UP TO
IT.
U.S. OFFICIALS ARE VERY WARY OF
THIS AND NOTED WITH SOME
PLEASURE THAT, IN FACT, FRANCE,
FAR FROM BEING SWAYED BY THIS,
ACTUALLY DELAYED THE DELIVERY OF
THE WARSHIP THAT THEY INSISTED
ON DELIVERING BEFORE.
SO I THINK THAT THE ONE HOPEFUL
SIGN THIS WEEK, PERHAPS, IS THAT
THE RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS,
QUOTE-UNQUOTE, WHICH, OF COURSE,
THE UKRAINIANS INSIST IS JUST A
FRONT FOR RUSSIA DID SAY THIS
WEEK THEY MIGHT SETTLE FOR
AUTONOMY WITHIN UKRAINE RATHER
THAN FULL INDEPENDENCE.
AND THERE ARE FOLLOW-ON TALKS IN
BELARUS FRIDAY BETWEEN UKRAINE
AND THE SEPARATISTS.
BUT LET'S SAY EVERYTHING FREEZES
IN PLACE TO HAVE THE OUTLINE OR
THE AGREEMENT THEN THAT REWARDS
RUSSIAN AGGRESSION BECAUSE IT
TELLS UKRAINIAN TROOPS TO PULL
BACK AND DOESN'T MENTION THE
RUSSIAN TROOPS AND MEANS THERE
WILL BE A SLICE OF EASTERN
UKRAINE THAT WILL BE ESSENTIALLY
A NO-MAN'S LAND.
>> Woodruff: HOW ARE THEY,
THEN, DEFINING SUCCESS AT THIS
N.A.T.O. SUMMIT?
>> ON UKRAINE, JUDY, IT IS TO
AFFIRM, IF THEY CAN GET IT, A
COMMITMENT IN GENERAL TO THE
SOVEREIGNTY OF UKRAINE BUT NOT
THE KIND OF SECURITY THEY'RE
READY TO EXTEND TO THEIR OWN
N.A.T.O. MEMBERS, AND THEY'RE
VERY CLEAR ABOUT THAT.
IN OTHER WORDS, IT'S TO MAKE
SHEER TO PUTIN AS ONE U.S.
OFFICIAL SAID TO ME THAT THERE
ARE REAL CONSEQUENCES IN
CONTINUING THIS AND ONE OF THOSE
IS WE HAVE AND WILL CONTINUE TO
BEEF OUOMMITMENT TO
N.A.T.O. MEMBERS WHO ARE IN THE
SAME NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH INCLUDE
THE BAL BALTICS.
THEY'RE GOING TO RECRUIT
INFRASTRUCTURE FAR IN THE EAST
WITHOUT VIOLATING THE AGREEMENT
THEY MADE IN THE '70s ABOUT
THE N.A.T.O.-RUSSIA PACT WHICH
IS N.A.T.O. WOULDN'T HAVE
PERMANENT BASES IN THE EAST.
>> Woodruff: YOU WERE TELLING
ME YOU HAVE BEEN TALKING TO
PEOPLE ON THE GROUND IN UKRAINE.
WHAT ARE YOU LEARNING THERE?
>> I HAD A HEART-WRENCHING
CONVERSATION WITH SOMEONE FROM
DONETSK IN THE GOVERNOR'S OFFICE
AND THEY WERE IN THE CAMP TO MAR
MARI YOPLE.
HE SAID IT'S CAT AND MOUSE AND
ANYTIME THEY WANT TO COME IN,
THEY CAN.
THEY SAY, THEY HAVE RUSSIAN
TANKS.
HE SAID, WE DON'T HAVE THE
WEAPONS TO GO UP AGAINST THEM.
SOUNDS LIKE THE GOVERNMENT
FORCES IN IRAQ AND THE KURDS
TRYING TO GO UP AGAINST I.S.I.S.
SO HE JUST SAID, YOU KNOW THERE,
HUNDREDS OF BODIES STREWN OUT IN
THIS NO-MAN'S LAND BETWEEN
MARIUPOL AND THE RUSSIAN TROOPS
AND CONCERN THAT PUTIN IS TRYING
TO CREATE A LAND BRIDGE TO
CRIMEA BECAUSE CRIMEA IS GASPING
WITHOUT SUPPORT.
MAR YUPLE IS WIDE IN THE PATH.
>> Woodruff: TWO OTHER HUGE
ISSUES FOR THE N.A.T.O.
CONFERENCE, ONE IS I.S.I.S., AND
DO THEY HAVE A GOAL FOR WHAT
THEY HOPE TO ACCOMPLISH IN THAT?
>> I THINK A LOT LESS CONSENSUS
THERE THAN WHAT TO DO ABOUT
UKRAINE AND RUSSIA, WHICH HAS
GOTTEN FAIRLY WELL DEVELOPED.
ON WHAT TO DO ABOUT ISLAMIC
STATE, CERTAINLY THE U.S. AND
EUROPE ARE ALLIED IN THE SENSE
THAT BECAUSE OF ALL THE FOREIGN
FIGHTERS THERE FROM EUROPE IN
PARTICULAR BUT ALSO THE U.S.,
THEY RECOGNIZE THE
VULNERABILITY.
BUT BEYOND THAT, SECRETARY KERRY
TALKED ABOUT PUTTING TOGETHER
THIS ALLIANCE OF LIKE-MINDED
COUNTRIES THAT WOULD ALL
PARTICIPATE IN ANY SORT OF
MILITARY OR ANY OTHER ACTION AND
THAT WOULD BE IN THE ONLY
N.A.T.O. MEMBERS BUT OTHER
MEMBERS FROM THE REGION.
THAT WILL TAKE SOME TIME.
AND THEN, OF COURSE, THERE'S THE
WHOLE QUESTION OF, YOU KNOW,
DOES THE IRAQ GOVERNMENT
ACTUALLY FORM A CONSENSUS
GOVERNMENT?
BUT THERE IS A LOT LESS
CONSENSUS YET ON WHAT TO DO NOT
ONLY ABOUT ISLAMIC STATE IN BOTH
SYRIA AND IRAQ BUT ALSO WHAT TO
DO MORE BROADLY ABOUT THE
DISINTEGRATION REALLY OF THE
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA AS
WE'VE KNOWN IT FOR SO MANY
DECADES.
>> Woodruff: I CAN'T LET YOU
GO WITHOUT ASKING ABOUT
AFGHANISTAN.
>> THE ORIGINAL POINT OF THIS.
>> Woodruff: THE CENTRAL POINT
OF THIS MEETING.
WHAT ARE THEY THINKING NOW THAT
THE ELECTION IS --
>> YEAH, THE END OF THE SETUP
PIECE, JUDY.
I ASKED A SUNNI U.S. OFFICIAL
ABOUT THIS AND SAID IS THERE ANY
WAVERING COMMITMENT OF THE
N.A.T.O. ALLIES TO AGREE TO STAY
ON PAST SEPTEMBER 14, THE
DEADLINE WHEN AUTHORITY EXPIRES?
HE SAID, NOT YET, BUT AT THIS
SUMMIT THEY WILL SIT DOWN AND
ACT AS IF ELECTION IS
SETTLED.
THEY WILL STILL PUT ALL THE
PLANS IN PLACE.
OKAY, YOU, GERMANY, YOU WILL
TAKE CARE OF HERE AND HOW MANY
FORCES WILL THAT TAKE AND SO ON
AND SO FORTH.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO GO AHEAD AND
PLAN.
BUT HE SAID, IF ANYBODY GETS
HOME -- I MEAN, THE NEW
PRESIDENT OF AFGHANISTAN WAS
SUPPOSED TO COME TO THE MEETING.
HE'S NOT COMING, THE DEFENSE
MINISTER IS COMING BECAUSE THERE
IS NO PRESIDENT.
HE SAID AFTER A WEEK AFTER THE
MEETING IF IT ISN'T SETTLED YOU
WILL HAVE A HARD TIME BECAUSE
COUNTRIES HAVE TO MAKE A
DECISION.
YOU DON'T LEAVE IN A DAY.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AS WE JUST HEARD,
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF CRISES
AROUND THE WORLD WHICH HAVE
DOMINATED THE WORLD'S ATTENTION.
TONIGHT, WE'LL EXPLORE HOW THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS
RESPONDING TO THE CHALLENGES AND
WHAT ELSE, IF ANYTHING, SHOULD
BE DONE.
JOINING ME NOW IS VALI NASR.
A SENIOR STATE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIAL DURING PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S FIRST TERM.
HE'S NOW DEAN AT THE JOHNS
HOPKINS SCHOOL OF ADVANCED
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
ERIC EDELMAN IS A FORMER SENIOR
STATE AND PENTAGON OFFICIAL WHO
WAS ALSO ON  VICE PRESIDENT
CHENEY'S STAFF AND AMBASSADOR TO
TURKEY. HE'S NOW AT THE CENTER
FOR STRATEGIC AND BUDGETARY
ASSESSMENTS.
AND DAVID IGNATIUS IS A FOREIGN
AFFAIRS COLUMNIST AT THE
"WASHINGTONT.
AND WE WELCOME ALL THREE OF YOU
BACK TO THE "NewsHour".
SO WHAT WE JUST HEARD FROM
MARGARET, WHETHER THE RUSSIANS
MOVING IN UKRAINE OR I.S.I.S.
MOVING IN SYRIA AND IRAQ OR JUST
UNTIL RECENTLY THE MIDDLE EAST,
ISRAEL AND HAMAS, THE WORLD
SEEMS TO BE LURCHING FROM ONE
CRISIS TO THE OTHER.
AMBASSADOR EDLEMAN, WHAT IS THE
UNITED STATES GOING EAT TO
PREVENT THE CRISES OR ADDRESS
THEM ONCE THEY'RE HAPPENING?
>> SOME OF THE CRISES IN IRAQ OR
SYRIA POTENTIALLY COULD HAVE
BEEN AVOIDED EARLIER, BUT WE ARE
WHERE WE ARE NOW.
MY OWN VIEW IS A
STRATEGY FOR DEALING WITH THE
PROBLEM OF I.S.I.L. AND IT NEEDS
TO BE A STRATEGY THAT COVERS
BOTH IRAQ AND SYRIA.
I THINK ON IRAQ, RIGHT NOW WE'VE
HAD EFFECT WITH AIRSTRIKES, WITH
WORKING WITH KURDISH PESHMERGA,
WITH SOME OF THE IRAQI SECURITY
FORCES LARGELY SHIITE BUT MOSTLY
IN BORDER AREAS ALONG THE
KURDISTAN REGIONAL GOVERNMENT
BORDER AND IN BAGHDAD, I THINK
WE'RE GOING TO NEED A BROADER
EFFORT, A BROADER ADVISORY
PRESENCE.
IT TAKES AN ARMY TO DEFEAT AN
ARMY.
DOESN'T NEED TO BE OUR ARMY BUT
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO HAVE AN
ADVISORY PRESENCE WITH THE IRAQI
SECURITY FORCES AND THE
PESHMERGA TO HELP THEM EXECUTE
THIS AND IT DOES MEAN THEY WILL
HAVE CASUALTY BECAUSE FOLKS WILL
BE WITHIN PROXIMITY OF COMBAT.
>> AND A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT
STEPS TAKEN IN DIFFERENT PLACES.
HOW DO YOU COME AT THIS, VALI
NASR?
>> WELL, I THINK THEY'RE DOING
WHAT THEY CAN IN UKRAINE AND
IRAQ TO ADDRESS IMMEDIATE ISSUES
EITHER I.S.I.S. OR RUSSIA IS
CREATING.
BUT NOW IN BOTH OF THESE PLACES
WE'RE DEALING WITH LARGER FORCES
THAT HAVE BEEN UNLEASHED THAT
ARE NOT GOING TO BE RESOLVED BY
A SINGLE SANCTION OR A SINGLE
AIR STRIKE.
WE'RE SEEING A CHANGE IN THE MAP
OF IRAQ AND SYRIA, TERRITORY IS
UNGOVERNED IN EASTERN UKRAINE
AND A COLLAPSE OF STATE
AUTHORITY.
IT REQUIRES BROADER STRATEGY
BEYOND AIRSTRIKES AND THE
CHALLENGING OF PUTIN AS TO WHERE
WE'RE GOING TO GO AND WE WON'T
GET THERE UNLESS THE
ADMINISTRATION AND U.S. FOREIGN
POLICY MAKES A COMMITMENT TO
PRESENCE THERE.
HA CONVINCE OTHER ACTORS
IN THE REGION THAT WE ARE IN IT
FOR THE LONG HAUL.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS NOT A
ONE MONTH, ONE WEEK PROBLEM AND
THAT WE HAVE A GAME PLAN AND
THIS IS OUR GAME PLAN FOR
ACTUALLY WHAT HAPPENS AFTER
I.S.I.S., WHAT HAPPENS AFTER YOU
BOMBED THEM OUT OF A CERTAIN
STRONGHOLD, HOW DO WE ACTUALLY
RESTORE A CERTAIN ORDER TO BOTH
UKRAINE AND TO IRAQ AND SYRIA.
>> Woodruff: DO THESE SOUNDS
LIKE THE KINDS OF RECIPES THE
U.S. SHOULD BE PURSUING?
>> WELL, I THINK THE HEART OF
GOOD POLICY IS TO WORK WITH
PARTNERS WHO SHARE U.S.
INTERESTS TO TRY TO COMBAT THESE
REALLY DIFFICULT PROBLEMS.
THAT'S OBVIOUSLY WHAT PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS TRYING TO DO.
HE'S MEETING WITH HIS N.A.T.O.
ALLIES TO TALK ABOUT THE COMMON
RESPONSES TO RUSSIA AND UKRAINE,
AS MARGARET'S REPORT SAID, HE'S
WORKING TO BUILD A PARTNERSHIP
IN THE MIDDLE EAST THAT CAN
COMBAT I.S.I.S.
THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF WORK
BEHIND THE SCENES ARE
SAUDI ARABIA, WITH THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES, WITH JORDAN TOGID
OF ADVISORY FORCES THAT COULD
RULE, I SUSPECT.
THE PROBLEM, I THINK, JUDY, IS
THESE GROUP EFFORTS REQUIRE A
STRONG AMERICAN CENTER.
YOU CAN PULL COUNTRIES TOGETHER
BEHIND A POLICY IF IT'S WELL
COMMUNICATED BY AN AMERICAN
PRESIDENT, AND PRESIDENT OBAMA,
I THINK BY THE ACCOUNT OF EVEN
MANY PEOPLE IN THE
ADMINISTRATION, HAS NOT DONE
THAT UNTIL RECENTLY.
HE'S BEGINNING TO SPEAK MORE
CLEARLY, BUT IT'S LATE IN THE
GAME.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS IT YOU'RE
SAYING HE HASN'T DONE
SPECIFICALLY?
WHAT IS IT, PERSUASION?
>> HE HAS A COUNTRY THAT
IS WAR WEARY AND HE'S TRIED TO
RESPOND TO AND REFLECT THAT.
LET'S REMEMBER, HE GOT REELECTED
AS THE PRESIDENT WHO WILL END
THIS DEKID OF WAR AND TURN A
PAGE IN HISTORY AND ALL OF A
SUDDEN HE'S CONN FRONT BY THESE
HUGE PROBLEMS.
I THINK IN A CASE OF IRAQ AND
SYRIA, YOU REALLY CAN'T FAULT
THE ADMINISTRATION FOR NOT
HAVING PUT TOGETHER A COHERENT
POLICY, STAYED WITH NOURI
AL-MALIKI WAY TOO LONG.
MANY PEOPLE WERE SAYING THIS WAS
A MISTAKE.
THEY DIDN'T COME UP WITH A WAY
TO BEEF UP THE MODERN OPERATION
IN SYRIA SO IT COULD STOP
I.S.I.S. AND HERE WE ARE.
>> Woodruff: AND AMBASSADOR
EDLEMAN, SOME PEOPLE WERE SAYING
IN RETROSPECT, AT THE TIME, IT
WASN'T CLEAR WHO AND HOW THE
U.S. COULD HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN
SYRIA.
>> WELL, I THINK SOME OF US WERE
SAYING AT THE TIME THAT WE
NEEDED TO HAVE A MORE ENGAGED
POLICY IN SYRIA.
THE ONLY WAY YOU CAN SHAPE AN
EVENT AND TO FIND OUT EXACTLY
WHO THE ACTORS ARE ON THE GROUND
AND WHO YOU CAN COUNT OBSERVE
AND CAN'TNT ON AND
CAN'T IS BY HAVING THE PRESENCE
AND BE INVOLVED AND WE DECIDED
NOT TO DO THAT FOR GOOD AND
SUFFICIENT REASONS, I SUPPOSE,
BUT IT LEFT US WITH FEWER
OPTIONS DOWN THE ROAD THAN WE
COULD HAVE HAD OTHERWISE.
>> Woodruff: GIVEN WHAT DAVID
IGNATIUS IS SAYING, VALI NASR,
YOU'RE ALL TALKING ABOUT IN ONE
WAY OR ANOTHER COALITIONS,
BUILDING A GROUP OF ACTORS.
SOUNDS LIKE THAT'S WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION IS DOING AND,
YET, IS IT THAT IT'S NOT
HAPPENING FAST ENOUGH, THAT IT'S
HAPPENING TOO LATE?
>> SOME OF IT IS HAPPENING TOO
LATE.
I THINK DAVID IS CORRECT.
BUT, YOU KNOW, THE
ADMINISTRATION'S WORKING AGAINST
THE BACKGROUND OF SEVERAL YEARS
OF COMMUNICATING TO THIS REGION
THAT WE OUGHT TO GET INTO ASIA,
WE'RE SHRINKING THE FOOTPRINT
AND WE'RE NOT REALLY COMMITTED
TO THE REGION AND THE REGION HAS
TO FIGURE OUT THE CONFLICT ON
ITS OWN, SO IT DIDN'T MATTER
WHETHER MALIKI BUZ WAS GOVERNING
RIGHT OR NOT.
NOW WE HAVE A DIFFICULT JOB OF
CONVINCING THE REGION THAT WE
HAVE RESET.
I DON'T THINK ANYBODY BELIEVES
AMERICAN POLICY HAS BEEN RESET
SO BASICALLY WE'RE JUST DOING
THE MINIMUM AMOUNT THAT IS
REQUIRED TO ADDRESS THE
BEHEADING OR CURRENT FOREIGN
ACTION BUT --
>> Woodruff: ARE YOU SAYING
WHEN PEOPLE SIT ACROSS THE
PRESIDEN --ACROSS THE TABLE FROE
PRESIDENT THAT PEOPLE DON'T TAKE
HIM AT HIS WORD?
>> LOOKING AT THE CRISES
UNFOLDING, THEY'RE NOT PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S FAULT, BUT YOU CAN SEE
PEOPLE ARE SKEPTICAL HE WILL USE
THE AMERICAN POWER DECISIVELY.
SO I THINK IN THAT POINT
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS A
CREDIBILITY PROBLEM.
I THINK HE'S WISE NOT TO ACT
IMPULSIVELY, BUT WHEN PEOPLE
DOUBT YOUR INTENTION TO TAKE
ACTION, YOU'RE TEMPTED TO TAKE
RASH ACTIONS.
HE HASN'T DONE THAT, HE'S
CAUTIOUS.
BUT THERE IS A NEED TO
REESTABLISH AMERICA IS A GUIDING
AND DECISIVE FORCE IN THE WORLD
AND THE PRESIDENT WILL HAVE TO
WORK WITH THAT THE REST OF HIS
TIME IN OFFICE.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU THINK THIS
PRESIDENT, THIS ADMINISTRATION,
AMBASSADOR EDLEMAN, IS CAPABLE
OF DOING THAT?
>> I AGREE WHAT DAVID SAID AND I
THINK THERE IS ONE IMPORTANT
ELEMENT HERE WE HAVEN'T
ADDRESSED.
IN ORDER FOR THAT KIND OF
LEADERSHIP DAVID IS TALKING
ABOUT TO WORK, FOREIGN LEADERS
HAVE TO HAVE A CONCEPT THE
PRESIDENT HAS A THEORY OF THE
CASE, HE HAS UNDERSTANDING OF
HOW THE REGIONS TIE TOGETHER AND
HOW THE ACTIONS OF ONE IMPACT
THE OTHER.
I THINK THE ADMINISTRATION,
UNFORTUNATELY, HAS TRIED, AS
VALI NASR WAS SAYING, TO LOOK AT
THE ONE-OFFICE.
WE'LL DEAL WITH THE PROBLEM OF
UKRAINE, HAVE SANCTIONS ON
RUSSIA TODAY.
WE'LL HAVE AIRSTRIKES TO DEAL
WITH I.S.I.L., AND DEAL WITH THE
EAST ASIA AND SOUTH CHINA SEA.
THESE ARE ALL CONNECTED AND THE
PRESIDENT HAS NOT IN MY VIEW
ARTICULATED A COHERENT CASE FOR
HOW THEY'RE CONNECTED, HOW U.S.
INTERESTS ARE CONNECTED IN ALL
THESE REGIONS AND HOW WE HAVE TO
ACT TO FURTHER THEM.
>> Woodruff: COMING UP WITH A
WORLD VIEW, VALI NASR, IS THAT
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HERE?
>> I THINK COMING UP WITH A
WORLD VIEW, ARTICULATING
AMERICA'S INTEREST IN THESE
CONFLICTS, UNDERSTANDING WHAT
ARE THE INTERESTS OF OTHER
COUNTRIES IN THESE CONFLICTS,
AND ALSO I THINK COMMUNICATING
THAT WE'RE NOT RELUCTANT TO
EVENTS ON THE GROUND.
YOU HAVE TO ASSERT WHAT DOES
AMERICA SEE IN ITS GLOBAL
LEADERSHIP AND WHAT IS
ESSENTIAL.
I THINK PEOPLE ARE LOOKING FOR
THE PRESIDENT, TRY TO ARTICULATE
THIS TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
IF YOU'RE NOT ACTUALLY TRYING TO
CHANGE THE MINDSET OF THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC, YOU CAN SEE
IT'S NOT GOING TO TRANSLATE INTO
EFFECTIVE FOREIGN POLICY.
>> THAT'S MY QUESTION, DAVID
IGNATIUS, HOW MUCH DOES THE
PRESIDENT HAVE TO KEEP IN MIND
THE RELUCTANCE OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE TO GET DEEPLY ENGAGED
MILITARILY IN YET ANOTHER PART
OF THE WORLD?
>> HAS TO KEEP IN MIND EFFECTIVE
LEADERSHIP IS LEADING THE
PUBLIC.
THE PRESIDENT SAID TODAY THAT
THE UNITED STATES WILL DEGRADE
AND DESTROY THE I.S.I.S.
EXTREMISTS WHO HAVE BEHEADED TWO
AMERICANS IN THE MOST HORRIFYING
WAY IMAGINABLE.
HE HAS TO DELIVER ON THAT NOW
AND BRING THE COUNTRY WITH HIM,
INCLUDING A CONGRESS THAT'S VERY
RELUCTANT BEFORE THE ELECTION TO
GET INVOLVED IN THE MOTHER WAR
IN IRAQ.
HE HAS TO DELIVER ON HIS PROMISE
THAT RUSSIAN PRESIDENT PUTIN
WILL PAY A PRICE IN UKRAINE.
HE HAS TO MAKE SURE THAT HE
MEANS THAT.
SO THAT'S WHAT HE HAS TO DELIVER
NOW.
>> Woodruff: QUICKLY, DO YOU
THINK THESE TERRIBLE IMAGES WE
HAVE BEEN SEEING MAKE THAT ANY
EASIER?
>> WELL, I THINK THE PUBLIC IS
GOING TO BE MORE WILLING TO SAY
IT'S WORTH COMMITTING AMERICAN
POWER TO FIGHT PEOPLE WHO DO
THINGS LIKE THIS, YES.
>> LOTS OF BIG QUESTIONS THAT GO
ON AND ON.
WE THANK YOU ALL FOR BEING WITH
US, DAVID IGNATIUS, AMBASSADOR
EDLEMAN, VALI NASR.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, WE LOOK AT A
UNIQUE READING PROGRAM THAT HAS
HAD REMARKABLE RESULTS IN ONE
FLORIDA COMMUNITY.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JOHN
TULENKO OF LEARNING MATTERS
REPORTS FROM VERO BEACH.
>> Reporter: THIS IS A STORY
ABOUT PARENTS MAKING A
DIFFERENCE, HOW A MOTHER'S
EXPERIENCE UNITED AN ENTIRE
COMMUNITY AND TRANSFORMED THE
WAY CHILDREN LEARN IN SCHOOL.
IT STARTS TEN YEARS AGO HERE IN
VERO BEACH, FLORIDA, WHEN MASON
WAS IN THIRD GRADE AND HADN'T
LEARNED TO READ.
>> LOOKING AT A BOOK, I ALWAYS
USED TO PRETEND I COULD READ IT,
WALKING INTO A CLASSROOM, I KNEW
THAT I PROBABLY EVENTUALLY WOULD
BE CALLED ON.
I WAS REALLY NERVOUS AND SCARED.
I JUST FELT TOTALLY LOST.
>> Reporter: HE TRIED TO KEEP
HIS DYSLEXIA HIDDEN BUT ON THE
INSIDE MAINS WAS COMING APART.
>> HE BECAME VERY ANXIOUS, VERY
DEPRESSED.
YOU'RE DESPERATE AS A PARENT
WHEN YOU'RE IN THAT SITUATION
AND YOU'RE AFRAID.
I MEAN, IT IS PURE FEAR.
MY JOB WAS TO HELP HIM, AND I
HAD NO IDEA HOW TO HELP HIM.
>> HELP WOULD COME, BUT IT
WOULDN'T BE EASY.
AS IT HAPPENED, HE HEARD ABOUT A
SCHOOL CALLED ODYSSEY THAT
PROMISED TO REACH STUDENTS WITH
DYSLEXIA THROUGH THEIR PHYSICAL
IT DIDN'T MATTER IT WAS
BALTIMORE.
SHE MOVED THE FAMILY.
>> IT WAS GREAT.
FIRST YEAR, TOTAL CHANGE.
THE TEACHERS HELPED A LOT.
THEY UNDERSTOOD HOW I LEARNED OR
HOW I NEEDED TO BE TAUGHT.
VERY HANDS ON, VERY KINESTHETIC.
IT CHANGED MY LIFE FOR THE
BETTER AND I THANK GOD EVERY DAY
FOR THAT.
>> IT WAS A LONG HAUL.
>> Reporter: HIS MOTHER WAS
GRATEFUL, TOO, BUT KNEW THERE
WERE MANY OTHER FAMILIES
STRUGGLING JUST AS THEY HAD WITH
NO HELP IN SIGHT.
>> WHY ARE WE KEEPING THEM
LOCKED UP IN THESE SCHOOLS THAT
HAVE HAD TO LEARN HOW TO REACH
THE HARDEST TO TEACH?
THEY'VE HAD TO DEVELOP METHODS
IN THESE PROGRAMS, THEY'VE HAD
TO INVEST IN THEIR TEACHERS IN
TRAINING THEM.
WHY ARE WE KEEPING IT THERE?
>> Reporter: TO THE LEARN THE
TECHNIQUES, SHE EARNED A MASTERS
IN LEARNING DISABILITIES AND
RETURNED TO VERO BEACH AND MET
BARBARA HAMMOND, A MANAGEMENT
CONSULTANT WHOSE SON AT THE TIME
WAS STRUGGLING IN KINDERGARTEN.
>> THE TEACHER SAID HE'S NOT
PAYING ATTENTION AND DOING WHAT
I ASK.
WHEN I TRY TO EXPLORE WHAT SHE
MEANT BY THAT, SHE COULDN'T
ANSWER IT.
WHEN I WOULD TALK TO LIZ ABOUT
IT, LIZ ACTUALLY COULD START
PULLING IT APART.
LIZ WAS THERE TALKING TO ME AND
WE SORT OF LOOKED AT EACH OTHER
AND SAID WE NEED TO START
SOMETHING.
NO MOM SHOULD HAVE TO LEAVE.
WE WANT TO BRING AFFORDABLE
TUTORING TO KIDS WHO ARE
STRUGGLING.
>> IN VERO BEACH WHERE 13
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS SERVE A
DIVERSE POPULATION, THEY HAD IN
MIND HELPING THE ROUGHLY 10% OF
STUDENTS DIAGNOSED WITH A
LEARNING DISABILITY.
AND TO PAY FOR TUTORING, THEY
APPROACHED A LOCAL
PHILANTHROPIST WITH A KEEN
INTEREST IN EDUCATION.
THE FORMER PRESIDENT OF A.O.L.
DO YOU REMEMBER WHEN WE FIRST
CAME TO YOU?
>> YES, I DO.
I REMEMBER IT VERY WELL BECAUSE
IT'S COST ME A LOT OF MONEY.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Reporter: BUT AT THE START,
OGLETHORPE PUSHED THE MOTHERS TO
THINK BIGGER.
THAT WAS IN 2009, WHEN A
NATIONAL TEST SHOWED TWO-THIRDS
OF FOURTH GRADERS IN FLORIDA AND
ELSEWHERE WERE READING BELOW
GRADE LEVEL.
>> PEOPLE COULDN'T BELIEVE THE
STATISTICS, THOUGHT WE WERE
MAKING IT UP.
THE SAD PART IS IF YOU CAN'T
READ BY THE END OF THE THIRD
GRADE, YOU ONLY HAVE ONE IN
SEVEN CHANCE OF CATCHING UP.
THAT'S A LOT OF KIDS FALLING
THROUGH THE CRACKS AND WE HAVE
TO TURN THE SITUATION AROUND.
>> THAT KNOCKED US OVER AND WE
SAID, WAIT A MINUTE, THIS IS
MUCH BIGGER THAN WHAT WE THOUGHT
AND WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
SOLVE THIS PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: INSTEAD OF
TUTTEDDERRING THE SMALL NUMBER
OF STUDENTS FURTHEST BEHIND,
THEY SET OUT TO TRANSFORM
READING INSTRUCTION FOR ALL
CHILDREN IN VERO BEACH.
>> WE'RE GOING TO WRITE IT IN
THE AIR.
>> GETTING KIDS OUT OF THEIR
SEATS AND USING ALL THEIR
SENSES, ESPECIALLY TOUCH AND
MOVEMENT TO TEACH READING.
THE SAME APPROACH THAT HAD BEEN
THE BREAKTHROUGH FOR
MRS. WOODY'S SON MASON.
>> WE HAD SHAVING CREAM, YOU
WOULD PUT IT ON THE TABLE, MIX
IT AROUND AND YOU HAD TO WRITE A
WORD OUT.
YOU FELT IT, VISUALIZED IT.
THAT HELPED ME A LOT.
>> IT'S AFTER BETTER CONNECTIONS
IN THE BRAIN BY TEACHING IN A
MULTI-SENSORY, DIRECT WAY.
>> Reporter: WE MET KIM SMITH
AT HIGHLANDS ELEMENTARY IN VERO
BEACH.
>> ELBOWS UP, READY, TAP, DASH!
(SOUNDING OUT "DASH")
>> FINGERS ARE TAPPING EACH
INDIVIDUAL SOUND.
YOU HAVE THE MOST NERVE ENDINGS
IN YOUR FINGERTIPS BESIDES YOUR
LIPS.
WE USE OUR FINGERS.
TAP THEM TOGETHER FIRSSA
THEM, THEN SAY OR MAKE THE WORD
ON THEIR BOARD.
>> Reporter: WENDY.
AND IT'S MUCH EASIER FOR ME
TO TEACH THAN TO PINPOINT WHO IS
GETTING IT AND WHO ISN'T.
READY?
>> Reporter: YOU SAID YOU HAVE
BEEN TEACHING 14 YEARS.
SURELY YOU KNEW SOME OF THIS
STUFF.
>> I DID, BUT NOT IN THIS WAY.
EVERYTHING THAT WE'RE DOING NOW
WAS REALLY BRAND NEW TO ME.
THE SOUNDS, THE BONUS LETTERS,
THE DIAGRAMS.
>> Reporter: HOW DID YOU GET
THROUGH 14 YEARS OF TEACHING?
MOST ELEMENTARY TEACHERS TAKE
ONLY A FEW BASIC COURSES IN
READING INSTRUCTION.
BARBARA HAMMOND.
>> OUR UNIVERSITIES AREN'T
PREPARING THEM.
THE TEACHERS DON'T KNOW UNLESS
THEY'RE SPECIAL ED AND HAVE BEEN
VERY SPECIALLY TRAINED WHY A
CHILD IS NOT SUCCESSFUL IN FRONT
OF THEM AND WHY IT'S BREAKING
DOWN.
>> Reporter: SO YOU'RE SAYING
WE HAVE A TEACHING READING
PROBLEM, NOT A READING PROBLEM.
>> YES, THE REAL QUESTION IS
WHAT IS THE GAP IN KNOWLEDGE?
WHAT DO THE TEACHERS NEED TO
KNOW AND WHAT DO THEY ACTUALLY
KNOW AND HOW DO WE FILL THAT
GAP?
>> ON THE LEFT-HAND SIDE --
>> Reporter: THE ANSWER,
STARTING FOUR YEARS AGO,
MS. WOODY BEGAN OFFERING
TEACHERS FREE COMPREHENSIVE
WORKSHOPS ON TECHNIQUES TO REACH
STRUGGLING READERS INCLUDING THE
MULTISENSORY APPH. UNDERSTAND WD
STRUGGLES WITH.
>> Reporter: TODAY 56
ELEMENTARY STUDENT TEACHERS HAVE
COMPLETED THE MONTHS-LONG
TRAINING.
KIM SMITH ON THE LEFT USES
MASTER READING COACHES TO GO
BACK TO THE SCHOOLS TO SHARE
WHAT THEY'VE LEARNED WITH
HUNDREDS MORE, AND RESPONDING TO
TEACHERS, LIZ'S TRAINING NOW
INCLUDES STRATEGIES TO HELP
CHILDREN COPE WHEN LEARNING TO
READ BECOMES FRUSTRATING.
>> WHAT WE BROUGHT WAS A PROGRAM
THAT FIRST TEACHES THE TEACHERS
TO CONTROL THEIR EMOTIONS, BUT
THEN BRING THAT UNDERSTANDING TO
THE CHILDREN THEMSELVES.
>> Reporter: AND NONE OF THIS
TRAINING HAS BEEN MANDATORY.
THAT'>> THE KEY THING, THE TEAC,
MASTER COACHES, THE SCHOOL
DISTRICT, THE PRINCIPALS ARE ALL
VOLUNTEERING FOR THIS STUFF.
IF THIS STUFF DIDN'T WORK, THEY
WOULDN'T BE DOING IT.
>> Reporter: THE RESULTS SHOW
READING SCORES HAVE IMPROVED BY
10%, AND TO KEEP UP MOMENTUM,
THE DISTRICT RECENTLY ADOPTED A
GOAL, THAT BY 2018, 90% OF THIRD
GRADERS WILL BE READING ABOVE
THE NATIONAL AVERAGE.
THEY CALL IT THE MOONSHOT MOMENT
AND NEW DONORS AND SUPPORTERS
ARE APPROACHING THE GOAL FROMEN.
>> IT'S UP TO 41, 50-SOME
COMMUNITY PARTNERS, FOCUSING,
GETTING REDUE
KINDERGARTEN.
OTHER PARTNERS FOCUSING ON
ABSENTEEISM, OTHER PARTNERS
WORKING ON READING BLOCKS,
PHYSICIAN, PEDIATRICIANS GETTING
THE KIDS HEALTHY.
IT'S WONDERFUL TO SEE THE
COMMUNITY RALLYING AROUND THE
ONE SINGLE ISSUE CALLED THE
MOONSHOT MOMENT.
S>> Reporter: WHAT STARTED AS
ONE MOTHER'S SEARCH FOR A
SOLUTION FOR HER SON UNITED A
TOWN AND MAY TURN AROUND AN
ENTIRE SCHOOL SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff: IT SEEMS THAT A
WEEK DOESN'T GO BY WITHOUT A
SIGNIFICANT STORY ABOUT HACKING
OR CYBER ATTACKS OF SOME KIND.
JUST THIS WEEK, THERE HAVE BEEN
NEW CONCERNS OVER THE POSTING OF
CELEBRITY PHOTOS AND A POTENTIAL
CREDIT CARD BREACH AT HOME
DEPOT.
ONE ONLINE COMMUNITY KNOWN AS
ANONYMOUS OFTEN CAPTURES SOME OF
THE BIGGEST HEADLINES FOR THEIR
HACKS.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, HARI
SREENIVASAN RECORDED A
CONVERSATION IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS ABOUT ITS ORIGINS.
>> Sreenivasan: HACKERS WHO
SELL INFORMATION UNDER THE
COLLECTIVE NAME ANONYMOUS HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED IN CYBER
ATTRACTION ON CORPORATIONS TO
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES TO LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS EVEN THE
"NewsHour" WEB SITE.
WE TAKE A CLOSE LOOK AT
ANONYMOUS HOW THEY INCITED
ONLINE VIGILANTISM.
AHMAN NOW HAS A SLOGAN, SAYS WE
ARE LEGION.
WHO ARE ANONYMOUS OR HOW ARE
THEY ORGANIZED?
>> ANONYMOUS IS AN INTERNATIONAL
COLLECTION OF HACKERS,
PROTESTERS AND GEEKS.
FUNDAMENTALLY IT'S SORT OF A
HARD THING TO WRAP ONE'S MIND
AROUND BECAUSE YOU THINK OF
ORGANIZATIONS AS BEING GROUPS
AND GROUPS WHO HAVE LEADERS AND
THEY HAVE COMMITTEES AND
MEETINGS, BUT, YOU KNOW,
ANONYMOUS IS SOMETIMES REFERRED
TO AS A HIVE, A SWARM.
IT IS SOMEWHAT CHAOTIC.
THERE ARE NO REAL LEADERS.
THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO ORGANIZE
DIFFERENT ACTIONS AT DIFFERENT
POINTS IN TIME, BUT ESSENTIALLY,
YOU KNOW, WHAT THEY'VE EVOLVED
OVER THE PAST, YOU KNOW, TEN
YEARS OR SO FROM AN ORGANIZATION
THAT WAS MAINLY LOOKING FOR WHAT
ARE CALLED LULLS, FOR KIND OF
LAUGHS ON THE INTERNET TO A
REALLY STRONG FORCE FOR SOCIAL
CHANGE AND PROTEST.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU DOCUMENT A
LOT OF THESE DENIAL OF SERVICE
ATTACKS.
>> RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW
SIGNIFICANT ARE THEY?
WHAT CAN THEY DO TO A COMPANY OR
GOVERNMENT?
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF CONCERN
ABOUT THE DENIAL OF SERVICE
ATTACKS.
WHAT THAT BASICALLY MEANS IS
WHEN YOU HEAR ABOUT WEB SITES
THAT ARE TAKEN DOWN, THIS IS
OFTEN THE METHOD THAT'S USED.
THE WAY IT WORKS IS A WEB SITE
IS ESSENTIALLY SWAMPED WITH SO
MANY REQUESTS THAT IT CAN'T
HANDLE IT, SO IT WILL CRASH.
ONE SIDE YOU HAVE THE
PROTESTERS, SUCH AS THOSE IN
ANONYMOUS, AND THEY SAY, YOU
KNOW, FOR US THIS IS A FORM OF
PROTEST, THIS IS LIKE BLOCKING
THE ENTRANCE TO A RESTAURANT OR
A BANK OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: KIND OF A
CIVIL RIGHTS THING.
>> THAT'S THE WAY THEY'LL FRAME
IT.
ON THE OTHER HAND YOU WILL HAVE
THE BUSINESSES OR THE
GOVERNMENTS WHO HAVE BEEN
SUBJECTED TO THE ATTACKS AND YOU
HAVE BUSINESSES LIKE PayPal
WHO WAS ATTACKED AND THE IMAGE
IS $5 MILLION OR SOMETHING LIKE
THIS.
THE CITY GOVERNMENTS AND THE
PERSON I READ ABOUT, COMMANDER
X, ONE OF HIS ACTIONS WAS
AGAINST THE CITY OF SANTA CRUZ
AND HE TOOK DOWN THE WEB SITE
FOR ABOUT 20 MINUTES.
SO, YOU KNOW, YOU WILL HAVE
GOVERNMENTS SAY THIS IS
DISRUPTING THE SERVICE, THEIR
ABILITY TO GET INFORMATION OUT,
BUSINESSES ARE CLAIMING LOSS OF
REVENUES, SO THERE'S THESE TWO
SIDES TO IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE IS KIND
OF AN INTERESTING DISTINCTION.
HOW SKILLED ARE THESE PEOPLE?
ON THE ONE HAND YOU POINT OUT
NOT ALL ARE GIFTED HACKERS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, HOMELAND
SECURITY, F.B.I. ARE VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE THREAT AND
SAY THEY COULD TAKE DOWN A VERY
IMPORTANT INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> YOU'RE RIGHT.
ONE OF THE PARTS TO HAVE THE
SERVER I'M REPORTING ON IS A FEW
YEARS AGO THERE WERE BRIEFINGS
ON CAPITOL HILL ABOUT THIS IDEA
ABOUT THIS THREAT OF ANONYMOUS.
KEITH ALEXANDER AT THE TIME WAS
SAYING OR SUGGESTING ANONYMOUS
AT THE TIME HAD THE CAPABILITY
TO ATTACK POWER GRIDS.
SOME PEOPLE SAY THAT WAS
ESSENTIALLY BEATING THE DRUM FOR
OME LEGISLATION AT THE TIME,
BUT, YOU KNOW, TO THINK ABOUT
ANONYMOUS, AGAIN, THINKING ABOUT
THEM AS THIS HIVE, WITHIN THE
HIVE ARE EXTREMELY GIFTED
HACKERS, VERY SOPHISTICATED
HACKERS THAT CAN DO A GREAT DEAL
AND CAUSE A LOT OF DAMAGE.
BUT AFTER REPORTING ON THIS FOR
A YEAR OR SO, COLLECTIVE WISDOM
IS MAYBE 20% OF THE PEOPLE WHO
IDENTIFY AS ANONYMOUS ARE
ACTUALLY HACKERS AND THE OTHER
80% OR SO ARE JUST PROTESTERS,
YOU KNOW LIKE I SAID, GEEKS,
DISENFRANCHISED.
IT'S BECOME A CATCH-ALL FOR ALL
OF THAT.
>> YOU ALSO GOT AN INTERESTING
PHRASE IN YOUR STORY, YOU'VE
CALLED SOME OF THEIR ACTIONS
INFLUENTIAL BUT IRRESPONSIBLE
AND THE STEPHENVILLE, OHIO, RAPE
CASE WHERE THE HIGH SCHOOL
TEENAGER WAS RAPED, THEY FIGURED
OUT A WAY TO GET A CELL PHONE
VIDEO OUT TO THE PUBLIC BUT, AT
THE SAME TIME, RELEASED AN
UNREDACTED COURT DOCUMENT WHICH
OUTED THE VICTIM'S NAME AS WELL.
>> RIGHT.
IN THAT CASE AND IN OTHERS, MOST
RECENTLY FERGUSON, TO A GREAT
DEAL, YOU KNOW, THE WAY -- THEIR
APPROACH IS THEY COME BACK WITH
A CLEARINGHOUSE OF INFORMATION
AND THEY'RE TRYING TO GET IT OUT
THERE VERY QUICKLY.
THEY'RE NOT TAKING THE TIME TO
VERIFY EVERYTHING.
IT'S KIND OF A WIKILEAKS MODEL
IN A WAY WHERE THEY'RE GOING OUT
AND SAYING, LOOK, HERE'S ALL
THIS INFORMATION COMING IN, HERE
ARE VIDEOS AND TESTIMONIALS, YOU
ALL MAKE SENSE OF IT -- MEANING
THE GENERAL PUBLIC, THE MEDIA,
OR WHOMEVER -- AND SOMETIMES IN
THAT KIND OF FIRE HOSE BLAST OF
DATA AND MEDIA, THERE WILL BE
IMPACTFUL THINGS SUCH AS THE
VIDEO AND THEN THINGS THAT
AREN'T AND THERE WILL BE THINGS
THAT ARE PROBLEMATIC SUCH AS IN
FERGUSON WHEN, YOU KNOW, THERE
WAS A RUSH TO IDENTIFY THE --
WHO IS THE OFFICER WHO SHOT
MICHAEL BROWN, AND ANONYMOUS OR
SOMEONE REPRESENTING ANONYMOUS
RELEASED THE WRONG NAME, AND I
SPOKE WITH THE PERSON WHO WAS
NAMED AND HE BASICALLY FEELS
LIKE HIS REPUTATION HAS BEEN
JUST RUINED FOREVER.
>> Sreenivasan: HE STAYED IN
HIS HOME FOR A WEEK.
>> HE WAS UNDER POLICE WATCH FOR
A WEEK IN HIS HOME.
HE DESCRIBES HIMSELF AS A QUIET,
HARD WORKING CIVIL SERVANT WHO
HAS THE ATTENTION OF HACKERS AND
THE PEOPLE OF THE WORLD AND
FERGUSON WHO WANTED A NAME.
THERE WERE PEOPLE WITHIN
ANONYMOUS WHO DID COME OUT AND
APOLOGIZE FOR THIS, BUT, YOU
KNOW, THERE IS AN ELEMENT OF
CHAOS TO ALL OF THIS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE ARTICLE
ABOUT ANONYMOUS I IS IN THIS
WEEK'S "NEW YORKER."
THANK YOU FOR COMING.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: ONE FOOTNOTE--
SINCE HARI RECORDED THAT
CONVERSATION, IT'S BEEN FOUND
THAT SOME OF THE CELEBRITY
PHOTOS OF JENNIFER LAWRENCE AND
OTHERS WERE POSTED ON AN ONLINE
BULLETIN BOARD AFFILIATED WITH
ANONYMOUS.
BUT IT'S NOT CLEAR WHETHER
ANONYMOUS HAD A ROLE IN THE
HACKING ITSELF.
>> Woodruff: AS WORD SURFACES
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA IS DELAYING
A DECISION ON WHETHER TO TAKE
EXECUTIVE ACTION ON IMMIGRATION,
A NEW POLL FINDS THE PUBLIC'S
PRIORITIES ON THE ISSUE HAVE
SHIFTED.
A PEW RESEARCH CENTER SURVEY
RELEASED TODAY SHOWED A SPIKE IN
FAVOR OF MAKING BORDER SECURITY
THE PRIORITY.
AND A DROP IN SUPPORT FOR
CREATING A WAY FOR UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS TO BECOME CITIZENS,
OR MAKING BOTH MATTERS AN EQUAL
PRIORITY.
THE DIVIDE AMONG THE PUBLIC IS
ONE REFLECTED IN OUR OCCASIONAL
SERIES OF ONE-ON-ONE INTERVIEWS
ABOUT HOW TO HANDLE THE BORDER
CRISIS.
JEFF IS BACK WITH OUR LATEST
CONVERSATION.
>> Brown: IN OUR SERIES, WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT THE INFLUX OF
UNACCOMPANIED MINORS WITH BORDER
PATROL GUARDS, IMMIGRATION
LAWYERS, RANCHERS AND OTHERS,
SOME LIVING AND WORKING AT THE
BORDER AND OTHERS AS FAR AS
2,000 MILES AWAY, IN THIS CASE
BRISTOL COUNTY, MASSACHUSETTS.
THOMAS IS A SHERIFF THERE AND
JOINS US.
LET ME ASK THE QUESTION WE ASKED
OUR OTHER GUESTS FIRST.
WHERE DO YOU SPECIFICALLY AS
SHERIFF IN A SOUTHERN
MASSACHUSETTS SEE AND FEEL THE
IMPACT OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION,
SPECIFICALLY OF UNACCOMPANIED
MINORS?
>> WELL, WE HAVE ABOUT 989
UNACCOMPANIED MINORS WHO ARRIVED
IN MASSACHUSETTS AND PLACED IN
FOSTER CARE SINCE JANUARY 1
THROUGH JULY 31 OF THIS YEAR,
AND WE'RE SEEING THE IMPACT IN
SCHOOLS THROUGHOUT OUR COUNTY
AND THE STATE AND, AS WELL,
WE'RE SEEING IT IN THE
EXPLOITATION OF THESE
INDIVIDUALS WHEN CRIMINALS ARE
TARGETING THEM, KNOWING THAT,
NUMBER ONE, THEY DON'T SPEAK THE
LANGUAGE AND, TWO, IF THEY'RE
HERE ILLEGALLY AND EARNING MONEY
SOMEWHERE THEY'RE PROBABLY
GETTING PAID CASH AND THEY'RE
BEING EXPLOITED AND BEING
ROBBED.
>> Brown: IS THAT EXPLOITATION
PROBLEM SOMETHING THAT YOU'RE
UNABLE TO DEAL WITH, I MEAN TO
PROTECT THEM FROM THAT?
>> WELL, YEAH, IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT BECAUSE THEY ALWAYS
WANT TO WORK UNDER THE RADAR.
THEY DON'T MAKE THEMSELVES
KNOWN.
THEY DON'T REPORT IT TO THE
POLICE.
WE DON'T KNOW JUST HOW MUCH MORE
EMPOWERED SOME OF THESE
AMERICANIZED CRIMINALS ARE
BECOMING WHEN THEY CONTINUE TO
COMMIT MORE AND MORE CRIMES
ULTIMATELY, PERHAPS AGAINST
PEOPLE BEYOND THE ILLEGAL
IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY.
>> Brown: THE YOUNG PEOPLE YOU
ARE ENCOUNTERING, WHY DO YOU
BELIEVE THEY'RE COMING TO THE
UNITED STATES AND EVEN TO
MASSACHUSETTR HE
BORDER?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK THERE'S
ANY QUESTION WHY THEY'RE COMING.
IT'S BEEN VERIFIED BY THE EPIC
REPORT DONE BY THE EL PASO
INTELLIGENCE CENTER, IT WAS
LEAKED OUT SEVERAL MONTHS AGO
AND WHAT THEY LEARNED IN THIS
REPORT WAS THAT IN 2012 WHEN THE
PRESIDENT SIGNED THE ACT FOR
CHILDHOOD ARRIVALS, THERE'S
IMMEDIATE CORRELATION BETWEEN
THAT SIGNING OF DAKA AND THE
SUDDEN INFLUX BY THE THOUSANDS
OF UNACCOMPANIED MINORS COMING
HERE AND IN THAT REPORT THEY
INTERVIEWED 230 INDIVIDUALS WHO
CAME HERE ILLEGALLY.
OF THE 230, 219 SAID THE REASON
I CAME HERE WAS BECAUSE I WAS
TOLD I COULD STAY.
AND WE KNOW THAT THE HOMICIDES
ARE DOWN IN ALL THREE OF THE
COUNTRIES, HONDURAS, EL SALVADOR
AND GUATEMALA.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT THERE WAS NO
SUDDEN CHANGE IN THE CULTURE OR
THE ATMOSPHERE WITHIN THOSE
COUNTRIES.
SO THE SURGE WAS DIRECTLY
RELATED TO THE PRESIDENT'S NEW
POLICY.
>> Brown: WELL BUT WE'VE HEARD
FROM OTHER PEOPLE IN THE SERIES
ABOUT THE DIRE STRAITS A LOT OF
THESE YOUNG PEOPLE WERE IN,
FEARING FOR THEIR LIVES IN THEIR
HOME COUNTRIES.
YOU SIMPLY DON'T BELIEVE THEY'RE
COMING FROM DESPERATE SITUATIONS
AND LEAVE BECAUSE OF THAT?
>> LOOK, THESE DESPERATE
SITUATIONS YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
HAVE NOT SUDDENLY EMERGED SINCE
2012.
I THINK IF YOU LOOK AT THE SURGE
IN NUMBERS, IT'S PRETTY AMAZING
WE'VE HAD 37,000 CHILDREN PLACED
IN FOSTER CARE SINCE JANUARY 1
TO JULY 31 OF THIS YEAR.
THAT DIDN'T JUST SUDDENLY HAVE
SOME CHANGE IN THOSE COUNTRIES.
THEY'VE HAD PROBLEMS IN THOSE
COUNTRIES FOR A LONG TIME, SO TO
SUGGEST THAT SUDDENLY WE'RE
SEEING 90,000 COME ACROSS, NOW
NEXT YEAR POSSIBLY 145,000, THAT
THIS IS SOME SUDDEN, DRAMATIC
SHIFT IN THE DANGER WITHIN THOSE
COUNTRIES, IT'S JUST NOT SO.
>> Brown: SO WHAT DO YOU WANT
TO SEE FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT?
>> WELL, A COUPLE OF THINGS.
NUMBER ONE, WE NEED TO CHANGE
THE LAW IMMEDIATELY SO THAT
THESE INDIVIDUALS COMING IN FROM
HONDURAS, GUATEMALA AND
EL SALVADOR ARE TREATED THE SAME
WAY THE MEXICANS ARE WHICH IS
THERE IS NO RIGHT TO TRIAL, YOU
GET TURNED AROUND AND
IMMEDIATELY SENT BACK.
THERE IS RIGHT NOW ALMOST A
400,000-CASE BACK-LOAD FOR THESE
UNACCOMPANIED CHILDREN NOW
BOOKED INTO DOCKETS OF 2017.
SO WE NEED TO GET THE LAW
CHANGED AND HAVE THEM TREATED
THE SAME AS ANY OF THE MEXICANS
COMING ACROSS.
THE THE OTHER THING WE NEED TO
DO IS WE NEED TO DO WHAT LAW
ENFORCEMENT HAS BEEN ASKING FOR
FOR TWO DECADES, SECURE THE
BORDERS.
BRING THE ISRAELIS IN, TALK TO
OUR PEOPLE, BUILD THE
SOPHISTICATED KINDS OF SYSTEMS
THEY HAVE IN PLACE.
WE DON'T HAVE TO REINVENT THE
WHEEL.
SECURE OUR BORDERS LIKE LAW
ENFORCEMENT ASKED.
WE HAVE THE BOOTS ON THE GROUND,
WE KNOW WHAT THE PROBLEM IS.
THIRDLY, IF WE'RE GOING TO DEAL
WITH THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS,
WE NEED TO MAKE MORE
ADMINISTRATIVE -- SEND MORE
ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGES TO THE
BORDER.
DON'T SHIP PEOPLE WHO WILL HAVE
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS ALL OVER
THE COUNTRY AT THE EXPENSE OF
TAXPAYERS.
KEEP THEM THERE.
GET THE JUDGES DOWN THERE AND
LET THEM DO THESE CASES.
IF YOU HAVE TO DO THEM AROUND
THE CLOCK LIKE IN PENNSYLVANIA
FOR REGULAR COURT CASES, DO THEM
AROUND THE CLOCK.
BUT WE NEED TO PROCESS THESE
PEOPLE AND GET THEM BACK IF
THEY'RE ENTITLED TO A HEARING
UNTIL THE LAW'S CHANGED.
>> Brown: WE'VE HEARD FROM
ELATIVELY WEALTHY SERIES THAT
COUNTRY THAT THIS IS A SITUATION
THAT REQUIRES OUR COMPASSION.
WHAT IS YOUR RESPONSE?
>> LOOK, WE'RE ABOUT THE MOST
COMPASSIONATE COUNTRY IN THE
WORLD AND I DON'T DISAGREE WE
OUGHT TO HELP EVERYONE WE CAN.
BUT, YOU KNOW, WHY DON'T WE LOAD
UP PLANES FROM IRAQ WHERE THE
PEOPLE OVER THERE ARE BEING
SLAUGHTERED BY I.S.I.S. AND PUT
THEM HERE IN IF ANYBODY NEEDS
REFUGE FROM VIOLENCE WE KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON.
WHAT ABOUT OUR KIDS IN CHICAGO
KILLED, EIGHT OR NINE A WEEKEND?
WHAT ARE WE DOING ABOUT THAT?
THE REALITY IS WE CAN'T SUSTAIN
THIS.
IF WE TALK TO PARENTS WHO HAVE
HAD THE SCHOOL PROGRAMS C
BECAUSE OUR GOVERNMENTS CAN'T
AFFORD IT ANYMORE IN THE SCHOOLS
TO HAVE ARTS PROGRAM, SPORTS
PROGRAMS.
KIDS CAN'T PLAY IN THESE
ACTIVITIES UNLESS PARENTS PAY
EXTRA MONEY WHICH THEY JUST
DON'T HAVE, GIVEN THE
DIFFICULTIES IN OUR ECONOMY.
SO THE IDEA THAT SOMEHOWE
ABLE TO SUSTAIN THIS THROUGH
MEDICAL COSTS, COSTS FOR
ADDITIONAL TEACHERS WHO ARE
GOING TO SPEAK THE LANGUAGE,
SPECIAL NEEDS COSTS -- I MEAN,
IT'S ABOUT $9,000 PER
UNACCOMPANIED CHILD IN OUR
SCHOOLS.
SO THESE ARE THE KINDS OF THINGS
THAT ARE GOING TO REALLY
DEVASTATE OUR COUNTRY AND NOT
GIVE US THE OPPORTUNITIES WE
OTHERWISE HAVE TO BE
COMPASSIONATE FOR THOSE WE CAN
BRING IN AND DO IT THE RIGHT
WAY.
>> Brown: SHERIFF THOMAS
HODGESON OF BRISTOL COUNTY,
MASSACHUSETTS, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WATCH ALL
THE CONVERSATIONS FROM OUR
IMMIGRATION SERIES ON OUR
YOUTUBE PAGE WHERE WE'VE
COMPLIED THEM ALL IN ONE
PLAYLIST.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY, THE
LEADERS OF RUSSIA AND UKRAINE
TALKED OF WORKING OUT A CEASE-
FIRE DEAL, AS PRESIDENT OBAMA
VOWED TO PROTECT NATO ALLIES
AGAINST RUSSIAN AGGRESSION.
AND THE PRESIDENT VOWED TO TAKE
THE FIGHT TO ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS WHO BEHEADED
JOURNALISTS STEVEN SOTLOFF AND
JAMES FOLEY.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT NOW
RESEARCH SHOWS THAT DONATING
MONEY TO A CAUSE MAKES US HAPPY.
JUST LOOK AT THE POPULARITY OF
THE A.L.S. ICE BUCKET CHALLENGE.
YET MOST AMERICANS DON'T EVEN
GIVE AWAY 2% OF THEIR INCOME.
TWO NOTRE DAME RESEARCHERS
EXPLORE THIS PARADOX IN A NEW
BOOK AND YOU CAN READ AN EXCERPT
FROM THAT, ON OUR MAKING SENSE
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND AGAIN, TO OUR HONOR ROLL OF
AMERICAN SERVICE PERSONNEL
KILLED IN THE AFGHANISTAN
CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE TWO MORE.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
RUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.